In current severe global emergency situation of 2019-nCov outbreak, it is imperative to identify vulnerable and susceptible groups for effective protection and care. Recently, studies found that 2019-nCov and SARS-nCov share the same receptor, ACE2. In this study, we analyzed five large-scale bulk transcriptomic datasets of normal lung tissue and two single-cell transcriptomic datasets to investigate the disparities related to race, age, gender and smoking status in ACE2 gene expression and its distribution among cell types. We didn't find significant disparities in ACE2 gene expression between racial groups (Asian vs Caucasian), age groups (>60 vs <60) or gender groups (male vs female). However, we observed significantly higher ACE2 gene expression in former smoker's lung compared to non-smoker's lung. Also, we found higher ACE2 gene expression in Asian current smokers compared to non-smokers but not in Caucasian current smokers, which may indicate an existence of gene-smoking interaction. In addition, we found that ACE2 gene is expressed in specific cell types related to smoking history and location. In bronchial epithelium, ACE2 is actively expressed in goblet cells of current smokers and club cells of non-smokers. In alveoli, ACE2 is actively expressed in remodelled AT2 cells of former smokers. Together, this study indicates that smokers especially former smokers may be more susceptible to 2019-nCov and have infection 
paths different with non-smokers. Thus, smoking history may provide valuable information in identifying susceptible population and standardizing treatment regimen.The authors have declared no competing interest.NoneAll relevant ethical guidelines have been followed; any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained and details of the IRB/oversight body are included in the manuscript.YesAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesTwo RNA-seq datasets and two DNA microarray datasets from lung cancer patients were analyzed in this study, including a Caucasian RNA-seq dataset from TCGA (https://www.cancer.gov/tcga), an Asian RNA-seq dataset from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) with the accession number GSE40419, an Asian microarray dataset from GEO with the accession number GSE19804 and a Caucasian microarray dataset from GEO with the accession number GSE10072. In addition, we analyzed a GSE34450 microarray dataset of gene expression from small airway epithelium and large airway epithelium of 50 healthy nonsmokers and 71 healthy smokers. Also, two single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets available in GEO with accession numbers GSE12296011 and GSE13139112 were downloaded and analyzed.View the discussion thread.Supplementary MaterialThank you for your interest in spreading the word about medRxiv.NOTE: Your email address is requested solely to identify you as the sender of this article.