Epidemiologists in American Samoa are investigating an outbreak of the protozoan parasite, Entamoeba histolytica, which according to report, has sickened more than two dozen.Half of the 26 people stricken with amoebic dysentery have been hospitalized for their illness, according to Radio New Zealand report today.Pacific Island Health Officers\u2019 Association Epidemiologist, Mark Duran told the news source,\u00a0\u201cIt [amoebic dysentery] especially attacks the intestines and kind of eats its way into the wall of the intestines; it causes abdominal pain, 
it causes bloody diarrhea, fever.\u201dRelated:\u00a0Entamoeba histolytica: New research shows amoeba kills cells by \u2018biting\u2019Amebiasis is a disease caused by the parasite\u00a0Entamoeba histolytica. It can affect anyone, although it is more common in people who live in tropical areas with poor sanitary conditions.\u00a0For more infectious disease news and information, visit and \u201clike\u201d the Infectious Disease News Facebook page.People mostly get infected with the parasite from ingestion of fecally contaminated food and water containing the amebic cysts. Transmission can also occur through oral-anal contact with a chronically ill or asymptomatic carrier.According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 
only about 10% to 20% of people who are infected with\u00a0E. histolytica\u00a0become sick from the infection. Of those who do become sick,\u00a0symptoms may include\u00a0stomach pain, bloody stools (poop), and fever. Rarely,\u00a0E. histolytica\u00a0invades the liver and forms an abscess (a collection of pus). In a small number of instances, it has been shown to spread to other parts of the body, such as the lungs or brain, but this is very uncommon.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked 
*CommentName *Email *Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.This website uses cookies to provide you with the best browsing experience.Find out more or adjust your settings.This website uses cookies so that we can provide 
you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.